Alright. In this video, we wanna go
ahead and look at implementing the PATCH
operation on the controller and I've set
up a unit test here. I'm gonna go ahead
and run it. So we can see this execute.
Now this functionally is gonna be
very close to how the update works.
Let's take a quick look at the API
documentation. So you can see we're doing
a PATCH against the same url customer/,
just like the PUT does. But in
this case, the values are gonna be
optional and we're only gonna be
updating those values. So that's the
difference between a PUT and a PATCH. It
updates an existing customer. But we are
allowing the client to just update, do a
quote unquote patch of operation. So the
functionality is very close. But the
biggest difference is gonna be in the
operation selection. So we are gonna be
using the HTTP PATCH method. And in this
case, it's gonna be running it almost
exactly the same but we wanna have
different logic there to handle that. So
let's go ahead and implement that now.
And now, a lot of business mapping there.
so let's go ahead and copy this. And I'm
gonna say, patchCustomer here. And of
course, I'm sure you guys aren't doing
any cut and paste in your coding right.
And now, what we wannao change is this
to the Patch, @PatchMapping, and in this
case, we wanna use the patch method. So
that's the biggest difference. So all our
business logic, I wrote that integration
test in the previous video. That's
testing out our business logic, our
Spring MVC test here. The unit test
we're writing and using MockMvc. That is
gonna be testing the RequestMapping.
So let's double check things here. So we
have patchCustomer. We wanna get that
@PathVariable Long id. And then, the
CustomerDTO is gonna get bound to it. We
are gonna return back an HTTPStatus of
OK. So let's go ahead and run that, and
we should see our test pass now. You can
see that the test did pass OK.
So let's go ahead and we'll start this
up
and we'll test it inside a Postman. Let's
come over here and see here
did a PUT. Let's take a look at the body.
So, will send that and we did get up Freddy.
And now, let's go ahead and change that
to do FreddyUPDATE. But now, we wanna
change that up to PATCH. So we're stuck in a
patch against the /1 for the id
and we should get back something. And we
got a Bad Request. And that is valid. I had bad
JSON there. Let's try this one
more time.
And we did not get back the id value,
which we should. I thought I fixed that.
So I will double check that and let's go
ahead and do a get on that and we can
see that the update went through and the
lastname of Meyers is there. So if we did
not pass that value using the update
method, that would have been a null value
returned. So if we passed in a null the
way that JPA is gonna handle that,
that property does not get set. That is
going to not work properly. So I'm gonna
investigate why our customer URL
didn't get updated. So I'm gonna pause
this and take a look at that real quick.
And I see the problem right here. It's in
our return class here. So let's go ahead
and CustomerDTO.
And we wanna take this guy. And what we
need to do is this function here, and
we'll just make it work for right now.
So that'll fix that url getting set
properly and we want the id value there.
So the return URL was not set on the
response so that will set that up. And I
am going to refactor this in a future
video. Because right now, this api url on
the way we're setting it, we're doing it
in multiple places. So we are violating
the do not repeat yourself
property. So we definitely wanna
refactor that and I will do so in a
future video. But for now, I'm gonna wrap
this one up. So that is how we'd set up
the PatchMapping for HTTP REST.